---
layout: post
title: "Genesis 1:2–5"
date: 2020-11-10 10:22:00 -0600
categories: Bible Genesis
tags: ["God", "Creation", "Genesis", "Earth", "Spirit", "Light", "Darkness"]
---
**²Now the earth was formless and empty, darkness covered the surface of the watery depths, and the Spirit of God was hovering over the surface of the waters. ³Then God said, "Let there be light," and there was light. ⁴God saw that the light was good, and God separated the light from the darkness. ⁵God called the light "day," and the darkness he called "night." There was an evening, and there was a morning: one day.**

Here, the earth is some abstract thing/entity. It is without form. It was void. One interpretation of the void is that it is chaos. There are two more things: darkness and the deep. The void and the darkness are not the same. The deep refers to the deep of the waters. The Spirit of God was *hovering* over the face of the waters. Is the Spirit of God light? No, it is something else.

God speaks (for the first time), and notice how HE begins with the word *Let*. Let implies some sort of allowance or permission for there to be light. Is He requesting something or someone for there to be light? Regardless, He is showing his humble nature here. He does not say, "Light, appear!" No. He does not give a command; he rather allows light to appear.

As He sees, he judges that the light is good. He then separates the light from the darkness. Does this mean that when light was created that it and darkness were not seperate? What does that mean? Note that He does not explicitly say that darkness is not good.

God gave light a name. From Dr. Tony Evan's notes: "By naming the parts of his creation, God expresses sovereign rule over them." He also gives darkness a name. "There was an evening, and there was a morning: one day." This implies that one day is from morning to morning. The Lord had started working in the morning and stopped working once evening arrived.