---
layout: post
title: "Genesis 1:20–23"
date: 2020-11-10 18:16:00 -0600
categories: Bible Genesis
tags: ["God", "Creation", "Genesis", "Water", "Swarm", "Creatures", "Birds", "Earth", "Expanse", "Sky", "Winged", "Fruit"]
---
**²⁰Then God said, "Let the water swarm with living creatures, and let birds fly above the earth across the expanse of the sky." ²¹So God created the large sea-creatures and every living creature that moves and swarms in the water, according to their kinds. He also created every winged creature according to its kind. And God saw that it was good. ²²God blessed them: "Be fruitful, multiply, and fill the waters and the seas, and let the birds multiply on the earth." ²³Evening came and then morning: the fifth day.**

God speaks for the sixth time, and He says, "Let the water swarm with living creatures." What is interesting here is the word *swarm*. What I imagine is that the waters are filled with millions and millions of creatures that are all interacting and swimming around together and not together, in swarm-like behavior. If you have ever seen a swarm of wasps or bees, I imagine it to be very similar. There is a lot of activity, yet it is both chaotic and productive at the same time.

He continues and speaks, "and let birds fly above the earth across the expanse of the sky." This seems clear to me. Birds are creatures of the sky. They fly above the earth and across the expanse of the sky. Birds are able to fly into the waters above the expanse? Not sure if the waters are still waters above the expanse.

Winged creatures include angels.

God saw that it was good.

God blessed them.

This all happens in the fifth day.