---
layout: post
title: "Genesis 1:28–31"
date: 2020-11-11 21:33:00 -0600
categories: Bible Genesis
tags: ["God", "Creation", "Genesis", "Blessing", "Fruit", "Earth", "Rule", "Fish", "Birds", "Creatures", "Seed", "Trees", "Food", "Wildlife", "Breath of life"]
---
**²⁸God blessed them, and God said to them, "Be fruitful, multiply, fill the earth, and subdue it. Rule the fish of the sea, the birds of the sky, and every creature that crawls on the earth." ²⁹God also said, "Look, I have given you every seed-bearing plant on the surface of the entire earth and every tree whose fruit contains seed. This will be food for you, ³⁰for all the wildlife of the earth, for every bird of the sky, and for every creature that crawls on the earth --- everything having the breath of life in it --- I have given every green plant for food." And it was so. ³¹God saw all that he had made, and it was very good indeed. Evening came and then morning: the sixth day.**

His intention was for human beings to "be fruitful, multiply, fill the earth, and subdue it." He wanted us to reproduce and fill the earth. What is noticeable here is the word "subdue." We can say that the earth was in chaos and needed people to regulate/tame/subdue it. 

God says to man and woman that they shall rule the fish of the sea, the birds of the sky, and every creature that crawls on the earth. He gives them authority over them.

He initially intended for all fruit to be our food. Did He intend for us to eventually become omnivores? Yes.

Every green plant was food for the wildlife, birds, and every creature that crawls on the earth. So there were no carnivores, yet carnivores eventually came to be.

Everything God makes is good?

We conclude the sixth day.
