---
layout: post
title: "Genesis 1:9–13"
date: 2020-11-10 13:06:00 -0600
categories: Bible Genesis
tags: ["God", "Creation", "Genesis", "Water", "Sky", "Land", "Earth", "Seas", "Vegetation", "Fruit", "Seed", "Trees"]
---
**⁹Then God said, "Let the water under the sky be gathered into one place, and let the dry land appear." And it was so. ¹⁰God called the dry land "earth," and the gathering of the water he called "seas." And God saw that it was good. ¹¹Then God said, "Let the earth produce vegetation: seed-bearing plants and fruit trees on the earth bearing fruit with seed in it according to their kinds." And it was so. ¹²The earth produced vegetation: seed-bearing plants according to the kinds and trees bearing fruit with seed in it according to their kinds. And God saw that it was good. ¹³Evening came and then morning: the third day.**

My notes here simply describe what occurs in these verses. It's difficult to give commentary on the creation of the universe since, as humans, we are ignorant to the workings and reasonings of God. We can trust that God's creation is perfect from the tiniest atom (and even smaller particles) to the largest galaxies (and beyond) along with all the energy in the universe.

I have in my notes:

The LORD speaks for the third and fourth times. He works with the waters under the heavens. He gathered them together into one place; before they were in many places. Dry land appeared. Dry land is called Earth by the Lord, and the gathering of the waters is called Seas. God saw that it was good.

Vegetation includes seed-bearing plants and fruit trees. Plants bear seeds. Fruit trees bear fruit according to their kinds.
