---
layout: post
title: "Genesis 1:14-19"
date: 2020-11-10 17:51:00 -0600
categories: Bible Genesis
---
**<sup>14</sup>Then God said, "Let there be lights in the expanse of the sky to separate the day from the night. They will serve as signs for seasons and for days and years. <sup>15</sup>They will be lights in the expanse of the sky to provide light on the earth." And it was so. <sup>16</sup>God made the two great lights --- the greater light to rule over the day and the lesser light to rule over the night --- as well as the stars. <sup>17</sup>God placed them in the expanse of the sky to provide light on the earth, <sup>18</sup>to rule the day and the night, and to separate light from darkness. And God saw that it was good. <sup>19</sup>Evening came and then morning: the fourth day.**

This is the fifth time God speaks. Verse 14 continues the idea of separating light from darkness; however, He is separating day from night with lights in the expanse of the sky. He says that they will serve as signs for seasons and for days and years. Historically and culturally, this has proven to be true as with the various solar and lunar calendars. Scientifically, it is proven to be true; as the earth spins tilted on its axis, the positions of the stars has an identifyiable pattern denoting when the season are. 

In verse 15, He continues and says that the lights will provide light on earth. This relationship between the lights and the earth is bound together by the Word of God.

Verse 16 goes on to describe what we now call the Sun and the Moon. What is notable is how, in the Word, it describes how the lights are to *rule* over the day and night. This suggests that God grants sovereignty to the Sun and the Moon over the day and night, respectivelly.

To me, verses 17 and 18 reinforce the ideas introduces in the previous verses. They show how, if God says so, it will happen. And, like the creation that preceeds these verses, God saw that it was good.

We conclude the fourth day.